4 Overview
==========

This section contains a non-normative overview of the ECMAScript language.

ECMAScript is an object-oriented programming language for performing computations and manipulating
computational objects within a host environment. ECMAScript as defined here is not intended to be
computationally self-sufficient; indeed, there are no provisions in this specification for input of
external data or output of computed results. Instead, it is expected that the computational
environment of an ECMAScript program will provide not only the objects and other facilities
described in this specification but also certain environment-specific host objects, whose
description and behaviour are beyond the scope of this specification except to indicate that they
may provide certain properties that can be accessed and certain functions that can be called from an
ECMAScript program.

A scripting language is a programming language that is used to manipulate, customise, and automate
the facilities of an existing system. In such systems, useful functionality is already available
through a user interface, and the scripting language is a mechanism for exposing that functionality
to program control. In this way, the existing system is said to provide a host environment of
objects and facilities, which completes the capabilities of the scripting language. A scripting
language is intended for use by both professional and non-professional programmers.

ECMAScript was originally designed to be a Web scripting language, providing a mechanism to enliven
Web pages in browsers and to perform server computation as part of a Web-based client-server
architecture. ECMAScript can provide core scripting capabilities for a variety of host environments,
and therefore the core scripting language is specified in this document apart from any particular
host environment.

Some of the facilities of ECMAScript are similar to those used in other programming languages; in
particular Java™, Self, and Scheme as described in:

Gosling, James, Bill Joy and Guy Steele. The Java™ Language Specification. Addison Wesley Publishing
Co., 1996.

Ungar, David, and Smith, Randall B. Self: The Power of Simplicity. OOPSLA ’87 Conference
Proceedings, pp. 227–241, Orlando, FL, October 1987.

IEEE Standard for the Scheme Programming Language. IEEE Std 1178-1990.
